Anyway, we'd let them do three, maybe four within the show, as long as it made some sense.
And the audience could enjoy it instead of saying, what are they doing?
You know, that kind of thing.
Now, you mean that they would have new words to the... Oh, they'd add some, yeah, they'd change.
And sometimes it wouldn't be more than like three words within a song.
But I knew it, and they knew it.
The audience on those cases wasn't even probably aware of it.
But they'd do slapstick stuff.
I always tried to include some sort of a novelty piece.
And we used to do the quartet from Rigoletto in costume.
And some costume pieces about the army, making fun of the army and military.
We'd always try to include something that was really slapstick almost.
But never off-color and never raucous.
It had to be entertaining.
Or why bother, as far as the way I looked at it.
You saw it in an audience's intelligence if you go too far.
So your food never got seasoned by then?
Oh, well, yeah, okay.
It must have been in the 60s because it was still in Guyon Hall.
I used to always take a glass of water out with me because I would sing a solo.
and put it on the piano very carefully.
And I'd take a sip before I did my solo.
Well, one year, the guys put peppermint in that water.
And of course, as soon as it touched me, I knew there was something wrong.
I didn't know what exactly.
But I just spewed it all over the piano and over June Beering.
And they never let me forget that.
Then they tried another year to put a goldfish in the glass.
So I got to the point there where I stopped taking anything out on stage.
One of the traditions within the group in the old days, too, was when we'd accept a new man, at one of the following rehearsals,
he would have to sing a solo for the guys.
Well when they finished there was never any applause or anything.
But they'd flip pennies at him.
And I'd have to clean the piano out of pennies regularly because they'd get on the soundboard and start vibrating or on the strings.
But that was a tradition.
I don't know what happened to that, really.
It wouldn't matter if the audition was good or bad.
You know, they just flip over and... Didn't try to hit them.
So that when y'all stopped to eat on the road, they never tried to season your food for you?
No, no, no.
Okay.
No prank phone calls?
We rarely stopped to eat on the road.
Unless it was a really long haul.
And we'd make pit stops because too many people were using the restroom on the bus.
And we'd get drinks and junk food.
But we were always overfed on tour.
I mean the guys would always gain eight to ten pounds on a ten day tour.
You know, Mama's going to take care of that boy.
And if we had group meals, and we rarely did, but we did sometimes, we'd have group meals.
We'd have things like chicken spaghetti and tamales, you know, just all kinds of stuff.
But no, they all gained weight on tour.
Did you ever have any poignant events that can be added to this tape?
Touching.
Well, I remember singing at General Rudder's funeral, graveside.
I remember singing at Pinky Downs funeral.
Can you describe that?
Well, it's just a great moving experience.
And it's very hard to sing there, you know, because we're all emotionally involved with what we're doing.
Did Pinky come to your rehearsals ever?
Oh yeah.
But not too often.
But yeah he'd even come and he'd just walk it.
Yeah, that's good.
Now, I remember him, correct me if I, I remember him as a comparatively thin, small man.
Right.
They're doing Dexter.
Boundless energy.
Oh, yeah.
Always seemed to be moving around the campus, here, there, everywhere.
He was a thin version of Lupo.
If you know what I mean.
My friend.
Well Pinky was a hellfella well met.
He just always, never turned it off.
Now, we're talking about P.L.
Downs, Jr., who grew up, I think, in Temple.
And I learned the other day it was a member of what was then the Board of Directors, now Board of Regents, in the 1920s.
Right, right.
And you would have never known that, to know him around campus.
I mean, he was a...
He was a fixture, no question, but he was also kind of a give you an elbow kind of thing.
A lot of people ridiculed him in many ways.
But I always loved that gentleman.
He lived next to the Lancasters.
over by the Hillel Foundation.
And he and his wife were lovers.
I mean they were lovers.
Everywhere they went they held hands.
It was beautiful.
I loved them.
Now, you were the director for how many years?
To what year?
35 years.
60 to 95.
95.
All right.
Compare the singing cadets and the routine and everything near 95 to what it was near 60.
How did we change in 35 years?
Oh, wow.
Well...
The main change as far as the singing cadets is concerned is not being corps anymore.
Now, we're lucky if we can get four, maybe five guys in the corps in the singing cadets.
Out of 60.
Yeah.
We went through a period of time
where the Corps outfits.
See, the singing cadets, if they were in the singing cadets, in the Corps, they got credit, excuse me, for General Moore award points in the Corps.
Whereas the band was getting academic credit, they were getting an hour of P.E.
credit or something.
But talking about that, the guys voted it down every time we brought it up.
We brought it up probably eight or ten times, do you want to try to get an hour's credit?
And they'd always say no.
They took more pride I think in the fact that they were doing it for the university because the university had given so much to them.
That was probably the major thing and the adjustments we had to make organizationally to cover that, that transition.
And that was gradual, that shift from core to?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, it probably all happened within,
Oh, ten years.
I mean once it started and it kept going.
But the guys who are in the Corps and who are in the Sync Cadets have it really tough because so many times their outfit, the guys in their outfit
give them a hard time, an awfully hard time, because they're not there for their P.E.
program, their sports teams, their outfit teams.
And it takes quite a young man to be in the Corps and be in the St.
Gunnett simultaneously these days.
It used to be, it was routine.
Other changes?
Well, of course, the girls coming.
You know, there was so much static and noise and hassle about that when it first started.
And within a year, I said, man, it's the best thing that ever happened to A&M.
The Aggie spirit went from the bottom of the pit to the top of the pile, almost like overnight.
It was amazing.
And I just thought it was great.
I just thought it was great.
And I'd say that on tour, you know, and I'd get people in the audience go, you know, old eggs.
But they came around too.
Not stupid, not all the time anyway.
That was a major change.
What about their talent, their capability?
Oh, that's lifted.
I mean, that's really gone up.
As I said, in the early days,
Most of the guys were good old country boys, could sing, twang a guitar a little bit, that sort of thing.
But the school systems, see, their music programs have gone uphill so fast and so far.
I mean Texas has probably got the best music program nationally, chorally, band, whatever.
So that was reflected.
Actually it made it much more difficult to do the auditions.
Because you didn't say, gee I can't turn him down, I just can't.
And many times the young man not really knowing about the singing cadets when he auditioned for them.
which didn't recognize that we did a kind of more variety of music and lighter type fare, we'd go and join the Century Singers.
And that was fine.
I mean, because that program needed support too, definitely.
That was a major change, the gals.
As far as you know, when you retired, was there any status difference among the general student body between any of these choral organizations?
How do you mean exactly?
Did the average person out on the student body or on the campus think of one of them as outranking the others?
Oh, well, possibly.
We went through the period of time within vocal music programs where we had a really kind of jealousy battle going on between the Century Singers and the Singedettes.
But that's gone now as far as I know, and was before I left.
And the women's chorus.
had become a kind of female version of the St.
Cadets, doing basically the same format of programming and so forth.
They didn't travel nearly as much.
There's a big difference in the sound of a women's chorus and a men's chorus.
And I'm assuming that all those others would have very few members of the Corps in them also.
Right.
That they'd have the same.
But the Women's Chorus does have core members.
Century Singers do too.
But not many.
There just isn't enough time, you know.
To go to school, half of them have jobs in addition to going to school.
And activities...
In that 35 years, did the number of concerts and the schedule of the year change much?
Oh yeah, it increased considerably.
I mean we'd get up, as I said, that first year we did probably 17 appearances.
And we'd do, I mean we got to the point where we could do 17 in the first three weeks of school here, you know, later.
But we'd average about 50 performances in town and 50 performances out of town when I retired in 95.
That's about 100 in the total.
That was variable, but that's about right.
And a lot of miles.
And looking back... Scholarship money, too.
You had some scholarship money?
Yeah, I mean, any time the A&M Mother's Club sponsored us, that was for scholarship money for A&M.
So the money that we earned in a performance came right back to A&M.
That was the whole point.
Looking back over those years, you mentioned Fred McClure.
Who are some of your other favorite Sing Cadet members?
Oh, heavens.
Oh God.
Al Meyer, I think he's head of the chemistry department at TU right now.
Al Meyer.
He's the one who designed the logo back in the 60s, about 64.
Jim Cain, the one who was in 17 semesters.
T.C.
Cone, who just died about six months ago.
A friend of Jim Cain, same group.
Jim Crouch.
Larry Layton.
Jack Harrington.
President's son.
He's Dr. Harrington now I think.
But we have a reunion every year.
And average 150 to 200 who come back every year.
We always have it on a football weekend so they can go to the game as well.
It's very hard.
I mean I have so many favorites.
for so many different reasons.
Some of our instrumentalists through the years have been particularly outstanding.
I've been very fortunate to have the acquaintance that I've had.
June Behring was with me for 16 years.
Spell her last name.
B-I-E-R-I-N-G.
Gus Buring is her husband.
Of course she's passed on.
We always called him the John Wayne of the Brazzes.
And now of course Condi Carter who is excellent, just excellent.
Charlotte Airey was our accompanist for several years.
Mrs. MacArthur, Margaret MacArthur, was for several years.
She directed the Century Singers or the New Tradition Singers for a year or two also.
We've had excellent help.
And Missy Holloway, who is the administrative assistant in the office, actually she started out as a pure secretary, but she runs the office now.
There's no question about it.
She is something else.
makes the the job so much more pleasant and it's not that job it's a it's a joy all right as you using that very positive um how how did other than proud how else would you describe the way you felt then and now about being the conductor of the group i was
I was always proud of them.
I didn't always like them, the individuals.
But I was always proud of them because they always came through for me and for the university.
I was reading a couple of others last night from various hosts and how they bragged on the boys.
I mean, part of our program was
to be PR oriented, not only on stage, but off stage even more so than on stage.
Make your beds when you get up in the morning.
Clean the bathroom, make it better than it was when you got there.
And you know, this amazes some host mothers.
Mothers especially always send a thank you note immediately after a tour, after you've been in a host's home.
Things like that, that was all part of our program.
That was all part of their growing up business.
Sharing with each other and with your fellow man.
Music was our tool.
Living was our method.
I mean, we taught them how to behave as well as sing.
And they loved doing it.
They loved doing it.
As you look back on those 35 years with sing cadets, can you think of any opportunities that the institution missed?
that would relate to the scene cadets and or the music in general?
Well, there were several occasions where I had the opportunity to get various music composers and publishers
to do special music for A&M.
And that's not cheap.
A&M would never come through with the money to do that.
And do you know to this day, as far as I know, they still don't own the 12th Man.
They own the Aggie War Hymn.
They own the Spirit.
They own I'd Rather Be a Texas Aggie
But they don't own the 12th man.
Who does?
The daughter of the man who wrote it.
And she won't give up the rights.
At least the university won't pay her enough to give up the rights.
What might that sum be?
I have no idea now.
Ten years ago it was like $800.
In the pot.
But they wouldn't come through with it.
I didn't have the money to do it.
Compared to additions to Kyle Field, that's a pretty small sum of money.
Oh, heavens, yeah.
And A&M ought to own that song.
I mean, the man that wrote it wrote it for A&M.
Yes.
But it went into the estate, you see.
And the daughter won't go.
And she's not making any money out of it.
I don't know.
Let's see.
You've mentioned some.
The greatest proud moments for you during these 35 years.
Watching them stand on the steps of the White House and singing the war hymn.
And with President Nixon, may he rest in peace, coming out and shaking every hand of every man.
That was great.
Another time was at commencement when George Bush spoke, and we were singing God Bless the USA.
And I looked over and there he was in the corner of the room singing right along with us.
That was great.
When we got the gold medal in Hawaii, we'd go to these intercollegiate
music judging things.
And the first year we went to Hawaii, and they all took place in Hawaii.
The first year we went, most of the other groups were high school groups that were there.
But we sang and went to the raise, and we did a terrific job.
And all the kids there knew we had won, you know.
And the night they announced that we got the quote, highly coveted silver medallion, second place.
And the other kids there booed.
The judges were terrible.
Anyway, the second time we did that, we got the gold medal.
And I was real proud that day.
I'm always proud when I hear about how some of the kids have gone on and done good things, special things.
I'm always sad when some of them die.
I've had sons of sons in the group.
Cohn, T.C.
Cohn for instance.
His father, his brother, and he or all three have been senior cadets.
And his father's still alive and comes to reunions every year.
TC passed away with cancer.
It's very hard.
I think one of the greatest nights is the night of June's last performance with us, after 16 years.
And one of the saddest times is when she died shortly thereafter.
How did you feel when you finished your last concert?
Very sad.
Very proud.
And I still... I catch myself...
Every afternoon about four o'clock I start mentally getting ready for rehearsal.
And it's so dumb, but I do it anyway.
I'm not singing as much of course as I did, because I'd sing at every rehearsal with them at performances.
I am singing in the church choir.
As I say, we just got through with this show.
That's why I have this long hair.
I've got to get to it Barbara tomorrow morning.
I felt I was very proud.
I was very, very proud.
And I still am.
I think that was a glorious night, just that whole thing.
It always thrilled me to fill Rudder Auditorium on Parents Weekend when I've been to many town hall performances or open performances that weren't full.
That just made it very special to me every year when we'd fill that place, 2,500 seats.
It was great singing in Dallas at the center up there.
But it wasn't, it was not acoustically as good, I don't think, as right around the story.
Jones Hall in Houston was always a good show.
Yeah, there's a minor question.
Of all the places you all sang, which one in terms of the quality of the facility?
Which ones were the best?
I put Rudder Hart and Tony up against any of them.
Really?
Yes, ma'am.
Yes, sir.
I'll tell you, that's another thing.
You asked one of the thrills.
When we went to Hawaii the last time for that contest,
We went to the Arizona Memorial, and we sang, Rise Up, O Men of God, before we went out to the Arizona, in that little, there's a covered area there where you kind of wait for the boat.
And they got off key.
And I said two words, I was singing, I sang two words and we got right back on key and we finished it.
God bless the USA and rise up, O men of God.
And boy, that was thrilling.
Another thrilling time was in.
When we sang in a Greek cathedral, of course they had no pews, no seats.
And we sang right in the middle of the church, under the dome, which was very high.
And we had a 16 second reverberation as we finished the song.
I mean it just rang and rang and rang.
And we couldn't believe it.
We just froze and it still was going on.
It was wonderful.
Hungary was nice too.
We enjoyed Hungary.
Had groupies.
High school girls and boys together would follow us all over the country.
And of course we sang, we were there 10 days and sang probably 15, 16 performances.
Great trip.
What advice would you give to the A&M leadership and to the seeing cadets today about that program?
Well, I would say recognize it.
support it, and let those kids know that they're recognized and supported.
The conversation now about the music department at A&M,
Well the Century Singers right now do get credit, about half of them elected to get credit.
I don't know if all of them do now or not.
That one hour.
Well those kids rehearse every day.
You know it's not like a three hour course.
The revelators don't rehearse that often.
The women's chorus rehearse three hours a week, unless they have special rehearsals.
Cadets rehearse every day, Monday through Friday.
As I told you, the cadets have voted down accepting credit, even though it's been offered.
They voted down.
Century singers, that was one of the jealousy things that came up between the singing cadets and the century singers.
Because the singing cadets couldn't understand why the century singers would accept credit for that.
David is doing a good job.
I think he needs to mellow a little more in what he's doing.
He tends to, being a Baptist choir director for so long, he tends to put too much sacred music in the concert.
Sometimes too heavy music.
He's carrying on the traditional things, nothing like a dame and the school songs and blah, blah, blah.
I had a woman call me the other day, Mrs. White, wanting to know what was the name of that place that you sing about where you all went down and drank your cares away.
I said right away, Ed's out on South Wilburn, but it's not that anymore.
They've changed the words to that and I don't really like that.
We had changed or tried to.
We changed from betting.